README.md, before:

[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-Apache%202.0-blue.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/Apache-2.0)

# Tower QE Dashboard

A set of Tower QE dashboard that allows to have better insight of what is going on

## Install

### Setting up Fedora to build the production RPMs

In order to build the production RPM you need to install the following
packages:

```console
$ sudo dnf install mock rpm-build rpmdevtools dnf-utils
```

Then add your user to the mock group:

```console
$ sudo usermod -a -G mock "${USER}"
```

After that you can proceed to the initial production deployment if you
deploying to production for the first time, or updating production deployment
if you are updating an existing production environment.

Note: this was tested on Fedora 30.

### Initial Production Deployment

To be able to setup a production environment, few steps are required.

  1. Locally build the `tower-dashboard` rpm. (Mock needs to be previously installed)

  ```bash
  $ ./contrib/packaging/build_rpm.sh
  ```

  2. By default, the script above will place the resulting RPM on `/tmp`. That
     said, scp the resulting RPM package to the production system, for example:

  ```console
  $ scp /tmp/tower-dashboard-*.noarch.rpm user@remotehost:
  ```

  3. On the production server

  ```bash
  #> yum -y install httpd mod_wsgi epel-release
  #> yum -y install python-pip
  #> yum -y install /path/to/tower-dashboard.rpm
  #> pip install -U flask
  ```

  4. Create the proper httpd configuration (`/etc/httpd/conf.d/00_dashboard,conf`)

  ```
  <VirtualHost *:80>
    CustomLog logs/tower_dashboard combined
    ErrorLog logs/tower_dashboar_errors
    DocumentRoot /usr/share/tower-dashboard

    WSGIScriptAlias / /usr/share/tower-dashboard/wsgi.py
    WSGIPassAuthorization On

    <Directory /usr/lib/python2.7/site-packages/towerdashboard>
       AllowOverride None
       Require all granted
    </Directory>

    <Directory /usr/share/tower-dashboard>
       AllowOverride None
       Require all granted
    </Directory>
  </VirtualHost>
  ```

 5. Edit `/etc/tower-dashboard/settings.py`

 6. `systemctl restart httpd`

### Updating Production Deployment

To be able to update a production environment, few steps are required:

  1. Locally build the `tower-dashboard` rpm. See previous section for more information.

  2. By default, the script above will place the resulting RPM on `/tmp`. That
     said, scp the resulting RPM package to the production system, for example:

  ```console
  $ scp /tmp/tower-dashboard-*.noarch.rpm user@remotehost:
  ```

  3. On the production server install the updated RPM:

  ```bash
  #> yum -y install /path/to/updated-tower-dashboard.rpm
  ```

  4. Remove/rename old database. Be aware that the default path to the database
     is on `/tmp/towerdashboard.sqlite` but since on production it is running
     on httpd managed by systemd, then the database path may end up being
     something like `/tmp/systemd-private-*-httpd.service-*/tmp/towerdashboard.sqlite`.

  5. Restart httpd
  ```bash
  systemctl restart httpd && systemctl status -l httpd
  ```

  6. Re-create the database
  ```bash
  curl http://tower-qe-dashboard.ansible.eng.rdu2.redhat.com/init-db
  ```

### Development

To be able to set up a dev environment, few steps are required.

  1. Ensure `pip` and `virtualenv` are installed

  ```bash
  #> yum -y install python-pip python-virtualenvironment
  ```

  2. Create yourself a virtual environment

  ``` bash
  #> virtualenv /path/to/towerdashboard/venv
  #> source /path/to/towerdashboard/venv/bin/activate
  ```

  3. Clone the repository

  ``` bash
  #> git clone https://github.com/ansible/tower-dashboard
  ```

  4. Install the dependencies

  ``` bash
  #> cd tower-dashboard
  #> pip install -r requirements.txt
  ```

  5. Copy and edit the settings.sample.py file

  ``` bash
  #> cp settings.sample.py /tmp/settings.py
  #> vim /tmp/settings.py
  ```

  5. Rock'n'Roll

  ``` bash
  #> FLASK_APP=/path/to/towerdashboard/app.py FLASK_DEBUG=1 TOWERDASHBOARD_SETTINGS=/tmp/settings.py flask run
  ```

  6. Initialize the DB
  ```
  #> curl http://127.0.0.1:5000/init-db
  ```

tower-dashboard should be running on your local loop on port 5000 (`http://127.0.0.1:5000`)


## Sending data to the dashboard

### Top level results

To update results of of entire os/anisble pipelines (shown in matrix) or the Openshift/Artifacts results, have pipeline POST to the dashboard in the following manner:

```bash
curl -d '{"os":"rhel-7.7-x86_64", "ansible":"devel", "tower": "devel", "status": "SUCCESS", "url": "https://myjobrunner.net/job/1"}' -H 'Content-type: application/json' -X POST http://127.0.0.1:5000/jenkins/results
```

### Sign off jobs
To update results for the sign off jobs displayed in the lower portion of each release tab, have jobs POST to the dashboard in the following manner:
```bash
curl -d \
  '{"tower":"devel", "url":"https://your.job.runner.com/job/1", "component":"install", "status":"FAILURE", "tls":"yes", "fips":"no", "bundle": "no", "deploy":"standalone", "platform":"rhel-7.7-x86_64", "ansible": "devel"}' \
  -H 'Content-type: application/json' -X POST http://127.0.0.1:5000/jenkins/sign_off_jobs
```
This will correlate it to one of the jobs created at database initializaion time and update the latest result.
These are unique on combination of the parameters:

1)  `"tower"` matching a `"code"` in the list of `TOWER_VERSIONS` found in the [base data used](https://github.com/ansible/tower-dashboard/blob/master/towerdashboard/data/base.py)

1)  `"component"` matching an item in the list of `SIGN_OFF_COMPONENTS` found in the [base data used](https://github.com/ansible/tower-dashboard/blob/master/towerdashboard/data/base.py)

1)  `"deploy"` matching a value of `"deploy"` in the list of `SIGN_OFF_DEPLOYMENTS` found in the [base data used](https://github.com/ansible/tower-dashboard/blob/master/towerdashboard/data/base.py), e.g. `"standalone"` or `"cluster"`.

1)  `"tls"` matching a value of `"tls"` in the list of `SIGN_OFF_DEPLOYMENTS` found in the [base data used](https://github.com/ansible/tower-dashboard/blob/master/towerdashboard/data/base.py), e.g. `'yes'` or `'no'`.

1)  `"fips"` matching a value of `"fips"` in the list of `SIGN_OFF_DEPLOYMENTS` found in the [base data used](https://github.com/ansible/tower-dashboard/blob/master/towerdashboard/data/base.py), e.g. `'yes'` or `'no'`.

1)  `"bundle"` matching a value of `"bundle"` in the list of `SIGN_OFF_DEPLOYMENTS` found in the [base data used](https://github.com/ansible/tower-dashboard/blob/master/towerdashboard/data/base.py), e.g. `'yes'` or `'no'`.

1)  `"platform"` matching an item in the list of `SIGN_OFF_PLATFORMS` found in the [base data used](https://github.com/ansible/tower-dashboard/blob/master/towerdashboard/data/base.py), e.g. `rhel-7.7-x86_64` or `OpenShift`.

1)  `"ansible"` matching an item in the list of `ANSIBLE_VERSIONS` found in the [base data used](https://github.com/ansible/tower-dashboard/blob/master/towerdashboard/data/base.py), e.g. `rhel-7.7-x86_64` or `OpenShift`.

1)  `"status"` matching a job result from Jenkins, e.g. `"SUCCESS"`, `"FAILURE"`, `"UNSTABLE"`.


## Exporting data from API

### Sign off jobs

You can get the raw json data for any given tower release for the sign off jobs by sending a GET request like this:

```bash
curl -H 'Content-type: application/json' -X GET http://127.0.0.1:5000/jenkins/sign_off_jobs?tower=devel
```

Currently only filtering on `tower` e.g. tower version is implemented.

## License

Apache 2.0


## Contact

  * Tower QE  <ansible-tower-qe@redhat.com>

Commit message:

add screen capture on how to create a github token
* Make it clear to the user what permissions are required for the access
token.

README.md, after:

[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-Apache%202.0-blue.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/Apache-2.0)

# Tower QE Dashboard

A set of Tower QE dashboard that allows to have better insight of what is going on

## Install Prerequisites

### Github Personnal Access Token

The dashboard sources information from github repos (i.e. branches, issues, projects, etc.). The dashboard accesses github using a Github Personal Access Token. The screen capture below shows you how to create a Github Personal Access Token. Save the token to `GITHUB_TOKEN` in your `settings.py` (defined later).
<img src="images/github_tower_dashboard_access_tokenn.gif">


## Install

### Setting up Fedora to build the production RPMs

In order to build the production RPM you need to install the following
packages:

```console
$ sudo dnf install mock rpm-build rpmdevtools dnf-utils
```

Then add your user to the mock group:

```console
$ sudo usermod -a -G mock "${USER}"
```

After that you can proceed to the initial production deployment if you
deploying to production for the first time, or updating production deployment
if you are updating an existing production environment.

Note: this was tested on Fedora 30.

### Initial Production Deployment

To be able to setup a production environment, few steps are required.

  1. Locally build the `tower-dashboard` rpm. (Mock needs to be previously installed)

  ```bash
  $ ./contrib/packaging/build_rpm.sh
  ```

  2. By default, the script above will place the resulting RPM on `/tmp`. That
     said, scp the resulting RPM package to the production system, for example:

  ```console
  $ scp /tmp/tower-dashboard-*.noarch.rpm user@remotehost:
  ```

  3. On the production server

  ```bash
  #> yum -y install httpd mod_wsgi epel-release
  #> yum -y install python-pip
  #> yum -y install /path/to/tower-dashboard.rpm
  #> pip install -U flask
  ```

  4. Create the proper httpd configuration (`/etc/httpd/conf.d/00_dashboard,conf`)

  ```
  <VirtualHost *:80>
    CustomLog logs/tower_dashboard combined
    ErrorLog logs/tower_dashboar_errors
    DocumentRoot /usr/share/tower-dashboard

    WSGIScriptAlias / /usr/share/tower-dashboard/wsgi.py
    WSGIPassAuthorization On

    <Directory /usr/lib/python2.7/site-packages/towerdashboard>
       AllowOverride None
       Require all granted
    </Directory>

    <Directory /usr/share/tower-dashboard>
       AllowOverride None
       Require all granted
    </Directory>
  </VirtualHost>
  ```

 5. Edit `/etc/tower-dashboard/settings.py`

 6. `systemctl restart httpd`

### Updating Production Deployment

To be able to update a production environment, few steps are required:

  1. Locally build the `tower-dashboard` rpm. See previous section for more information.

  2. By default, the script above will place the resulting RPM on `/tmp`. That
     said, scp the resulting RPM package to the production system, for example:

  ```console
  $ scp /tmp/tower-dashboard-*.noarch.rpm user@remotehost:
  ```

  3. On the production server install the updated RPM:

  ```bash
  #> yum -y install /path/to/updated-tower-dashboard.rpm
  ```

  4. Remove/rename old database. Be aware that the default path to the database
     is on `/tmp/towerdashboard.sqlite` but since on production it is running
     on httpd managed by systemd, then the database path may end up being
     something like `/tmp/systemd-private-*-httpd.service-*/tmp/towerdashboard.sqlite`.

  5. Restart httpd
  ```bash
  systemctl restart httpd && systemctl status -l httpd
  ```

  6. Re-create the database
  ```bash
  curl http://tower-qe-dashboard.ansible.eng.rdu2.redhat.com/init-db
  ```

### Development

To be able to set up a dev environment, few steps are required.

  1. Ensure `pip` and `virtualenv` are installed

  ```bash
  #> yum -y install python-pip python-virtualenvironment
  ```

  2. Create yourself a virtual environment

  ``` bash
  #> virtualenv /path/to/towerdashboard/venv
  #> source /path/to/towerdashboard/venv/bin/activate
  ```

  3. Clone the repository

  ``` bash
  #> git clone https://github.com/ansible/tower-dashboard
  ```

  4. Install the dependencies

  ``` bash
  #> cd tower-dashboard
  #> pip install -r requirements.txt
  ```

  5. Copy and edit the settings.sample.py file

  ``` bash
  #> cp settings.sample.py /tmp/settings.py
  #> vim /tmp/settings.py
  ```

  5. Rock'n'Roll

  ``` bash
  #> FLASK_APP=/path/to/towerdashboard/app.py FLASK_DEBUG=1 TOWERDASHBOARD_SETTINGS=/tmp/settings.py flask run
  ```

  6. Initialize the DB
  ```
  #> curl http://127.0.0.1:5000/init-db
  ```

tower-dashboard should be running on your local loop on port 5000 (`http://127.0.0.1:5000`)


## Sending data to the dashboard

### Top level results

To update results of of entire os/anisble pipelines (shown in matrix) or the Openshift/Artifacts results, have pipeline POST to the dashboard in the following manner:

```bash
curl -d '{"os":"rhel-7.7-x86_64", "ansible":"devel", "tower": "devel", "status": "SUCCESS", "url": "https://myjobrunner.net/job/1"}' -H 'Content-type: application/json' -X POST http://127.0.0.1:5000/jenkins/results
```

### Sign off jobs
To update results for the sign off jobs displayed in the lower portion of each release tab, have jobs POST to the dashboard in the following manner:
```bash
curl -d \
  '{"tower":"devel", "url":"https://your.job.runner.com/job/1", "component":"install", "status":"FAILURE", "tls":"yes", "fips":"no", "bundle": "no", "deploy":"standalone", "platform":"rhel-7.7-x86_64", "ansible": "devel"}' \
  -H 'Content-type: application/json' -X POST http://127.0.0.1:5000/jenkins/sign_off_jobs
```
This will correlate it to one of the jobs created at database initializaion time and update the latest result.
These are unique on combination of the parameters:

1)  `"tower"` matching a `"code"` in the list of `TOWER_VERSIONS` found in the [base data used](https://github.com/ansible/tower-dashboard/blob/master/towerdashboard/data/base.py)

1)  `"component"` matching an item in the list of `SIGN_OFF_COMPONENTS` found in the [base data used](https://github.com/ansible/tower-dashboard/blob/master/towerdashboard/data/base.py)

1)  `"deploy"` matching a value of `"deploy"` in the list of `SIGN_OFF_DEPLOYMENTS` found in the [base data used](https://github.com/ansible/tower-dashboard/blob/master/towerdashboard/data/base.py), e.g. `"standalone"` or `"cluster"`.

1)  `"tls"` matching a value of `"tls"` in the list of `SIGN_OFF_DEPLOYMENTS` found in the [base data used](https://github.com/ansible/tower-dashboard/blob/master/towerdashboard/data/base.py), e.g. `'yes'` or `'no'`.

1)  `"fips"` matching a value of `"fips"` in the list of `SIGN_OFF_DEPLOYMENTS` found in the [base data used](https://github.com/ansible/tower-dashboard/blob/master/towerdashboard/data/base.py), e.g. `'yes'` or `'no'`.

1)  `"bundle"` matching a value of `"bundle"` in the list of `SIGN_OFF_DEPLOYMENTS` found in the [base data used](https://github.com/ansible/tower-dashboard/blob/master/towerdashboard/data/base.py), e.g. `'yes'` or `'no'`.

1)  `"platform"` matching an item in the list of `SIGN_OFF_PLATFORMS` found in the [base data used](https://github.com/ansible/tower-dashboard/blob/master/towerdashboard/data/base.py), e.g. `rhel-7.7-x86_64` or `OpenShift`.

1)  `"ansible"` matching an item in the list of `ANSIBLE_VERSIONS` found in the [base data used](https://github.com/ansible/tower-dashboard/blob/master/towerdashboard/data/base.py), e.g. `rhel-7.7-x86_64` or `OpenShift`.

1)  `"status"` matching a job result from Jenkins, e.g. `"SUCCESS"`, `"FAILURE"`, `"UNSTABLE"`.


## Exporting data from API

### Sign off jobs

You can get the raw json data for any given tower release for the sign off jobs by sending a GET request like this:

```bash
curl -H 'Content-type: application/json' -X GET http://127.0.0.1:5000/jenkins/sign_off_jobs?tower=devel
```

Currently only filtering on `tower` e.g. tower version is implemented.

## License

Apache 2.0


## Contact

  * Tower QE  <ansible-tower-qe@redhat.com>
